# Devscribe
---

## Contributors:

1. Vladislav Artiukhov
2. Dmitrii Artiukhov


## Description:

Full-fledged IDE developed in Kotlin with support of syntax highlighting, file renaming/creation/deletion, and search functionalities | Semester project, 3rd year at Constructor University, 2023.


## Supported functionality:
- Caret movement via keyboard arrows and mouse clicks.
- Text typing and keyboard special characters support: `BACKSPACE`, `DELETE`, `CTRL+ARROW`.
- Optimized render via drawing only the text visible in the viewport.
- Vertical and Horizontal canvas scrolling.
- Text searching inside opened file and navigation to prev/next search result entry.
- Ability to open multiple files using tabs.
- VFS integration: opening project directory from OS (use <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>O</kbd>), saving files on disk, file renaming, file deletion, file creation.
- Implementation of Lexer for a fictional programming language.
- Syntax highlighting.
- Navigation without mouse use (using tabs only).
- Selection via mouse drags and keyboard arrows movement.
- Copy/paste/cut functionality of selected text.
- Editor text resizing.
- Theme changing.


## Implementation details:
- Array of strings is used as text management data structure; interface allows seamless integration of other structures.
- Syntax highlighting is implemented via tokens generated by Lexer.
- Support for an arbitrary number of VFS commands via **Command** pattern and execution pipeline using queue of commands and additional worker thread.


## Available shortcuts:
- `CTRL + C` -- copy selected text.
- `CTRL + V` -- insert text from clipboard.
- `CTRL + X` -- copy and cut selected text.
- `CTRL + O` -- open a folder from OS file system.
- `CTRL + SHIFT + -` -- make editor text smaller.
- `CTRL + SHIFT + +` -- make editor text bigger.
- `CTRL + F` -- open serach bar.
- `CTRL + SHIFT + T` -- change current editor theme.
- `CTRL + S` -- save edited VFS file into actual file in OS file system.
- `TAB / CTRL + TAB` -- focus on the next UI element.
- `SHIFT + TAB / CTRL + SHIFT + TAB` -- focus on the previous UI element.


## How to build and run the project:
Pretty straight-forward: clone the project repo and build the project via Intellij IDE.
